#summary Technical Realisation

= Technical Realisation =
== Dynamo ==
A test ride revealed that the 6V/3W dynamo delivers about 3.5Vac (no load connected) when riding at a gentle speed (15 to 20km/h).
The 3W-LED will only be on 1/4 of the time, so the 3W-dynamo will be enough to drive a 3W-LED.

== LED ==
 * LRW51M-HXJY-1
  * Osram Golden Dragon
  * € 2.48 (cheap)
  * only 1W
 * ASMT-AH30-ARR00 (red orange) and the ASMT-AR30-ARR00 (red)
  * 140° viewing angle
  * @ 700mA: 85 lm
  * @ 1A with 5% duty cycle: tpMAX = 0,1s
  * € 3,86
 * ASMT-JR30-ARS01
  * 165° viewing angle
  * @ 700mA: 80 lm
  * @ 1A with 5% duty cycle: tpMAX = 0,002s
  * € 3,26
 * The ASMT-AR30-ARR00 seems to be the best performing LED.

== Rectifier ==
 A diode bridge rectifier, even with Schottky diodes will reduce efficiency too much, because a voltage loss of about 1V over the bridge is too much if the AC-voltage is only 3.5V!
 Therefore a bridge with 2 MOSFETS and two Schottky diodes will be used.  MOSFETS can have a very low ON-resistance.  So there's very little voltage drop.  The disadvantage is that MOSFETS conduct current in both directions when they're ON.  To prevent this, half of the bridge is constituted of Schottky-diodes.

== LED-driver ==
 * LM3405
  * distributed by Farnell
  * Voltage over boost capacitor should be in the range `[2.5 5.5`]V.
  * Boost capacitor better be charged from the output voltage for that reason.
  * Only LED driver by Farnell that can be easily soldered.

== Flashing circuit ==
 An astable multivibrator is best fitted for this task:
 * It can handle the wide supply voltage range
 * It doesn't need to be programmed.
 * It uses only very little extra components
 * The smallest one found in Farnell was the MIC1555 by Micrel.